= RECIA Capistrano

This gem is used by the recia to implements specific behavior in capistrano. It furnish the following services :

 - parents : call of hosts' parents to execute action on them
 - filters : filter hosts to execute by its roles
 - password manager : help to generate password and secure them.

== Parents

The function is to execute command on the parent host of current hosts. To do this, we need the gem "nagios_mklivestatus".

To call the function from a task, we need to call a specific method :

 run_parent(cmd)
 
This will select only the servers' parents containing the guest (select parents which are servers).
There are some notable informations.

The method works as the standard run, except that the ENV['HOSTS'] are remplaced by their parents.
The command is replaced by its Capistrano::Command::Script version and the original hosts are ordered by their parents and given to the script.
If some variables are encountered, a loop is created to go through all guest of each host (parents). 

Those are for functionality purpose if you need to execute command with guest as variables you should use this :

 $PARENT:GUEST$ : variable that will be replaced by the name of the guest (we'll create a loop in script)
 $PARENT:LOOP:START$ : variable that will be replaced by the start of the loop (if not defined and $PARENT:GUEST$ exists, its automatically placed at the start of the command)
 $PARENT:LOOP:END$ : variable that will be replaced by the end of the loop (if not defined and $PARENT:GUEST$ exists, its automatically placed at the end of the command)

== Filters

This module is made to filter hosts with the roles in task options. It furnish 2 methods for task to run :

 run_filter_roles(cmd) # the host must match one of the roles (connection SSH)
 run_telnet_filter_roles(cmd) # the host must match one of the roles (connection Telnet)
 
If hosts does not correspond to the filter, they are removed from the list (with informations display) and the command is executed on the remaining hosts.

== Password manager

This is a class which help to manage password security inside capistrano. It's help to generate password (with save in a crypted file), and check the corruption of this password, plus it can securize all the password through a security automaton

To use the manager:

 require 'capistrano_recia'
 manager = Capistrano::Password::Manager.new(<file_path>)
 # generate pass
 new_pass = manager.generate
 # generate and save
 new_pass = manager.generate("key")
 
 # test corruption
 is_corrupt = manager.is_corrupted? "key"
 
 # corrupt password (giving it to a non authorized person
 pass = manager.corrupt "key"
 
 # live the password uncorrupted when asking for it
 pass = manager.live_uncorrupt "key"
 
 # securize all corrupted password
 # securized_pass is a hash of key => password
 securized_pass = manager.securize
 